## Material and Methods

### Plant Materials and Genotyping
All available germplasm were requested from USDA cooperators for *C. maxima* (534 accessions from Geneva, NY), *C. moschata* (314 accessions from Griffin, GA), and *C. pepo* (829 accessions from Ames, IA) respectively. 
Seeds were planted in 50-cell trays and two 3/4 inch punches of tissue (approximately 80-150 mg) was sampled from the first true leaf of each seedling. 
DNA was extracted using Omega Mag-Bind Plant DNA DS kits (M1130, Omega Bio-Tek, Norcross, GA) and quantified using Quant-iT PicoGreen dsDNA Kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). 
Purified DNA was shipped to Cornell's Genomic Diversity Facility for GBS library preparation using protocols optimized for each species. 
Libraries were sequenced at either 96, 192, or 384-plex on the HiSeq 2500 (Illumina Inc., USA) with single-end mode and a read length of 101 bp.

### Variant Calling and Filtering

SNP calling was conducted using the TASSEL-GBS V5 pipeline [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0090346]. 
Tags produced by this pipeline were aligned using the default settings of the BWA aligner [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btp324]. 
Raw variants were filtered using BCFtools [@doi:10.1093/gigascience/giab008]. 
Settings for filtering SNPs were as follows, minor allele frequency (MAF) $\geq 0.05$, missingness $\leq 0.4$, and biallelic. 
Three outlier genotypes were found in an initial principal components analysis (PCA) of the C. maxima data and were removed, as they were likely not C. maxima. Variants were further filtered for specific uses as described below.

### Population Genomics Analysis

ADMIXTURE [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-12-246], which uses a model-based approach to infer ancestral populations ($k$) and admixture proportions in a given sample, was used to explore population structure in each dataset. 
ADMIXTURE does not model linkage disequilibrium (LD); thus, marker sets were further filtered to obtain SNPs in approximate linkage equilibrium using the "--indep-pairwise" option in PLINK [@doi:10.1086/519795] with $r^2$ set to 0.1, a window size of 50 SNPs, and a 10 SNP step size . 
All samples labeled as cultivars or breeding material were removed from the data prior to running ADMIXTURE. 
Cross-validation was used to determine the best $k$ value for each species. 
Briefly, ADMIXTURE was run with different $k$ values (1-20) and the cross-validation error was reported for each $k$. 
The $k$ value with minimal cross-validation error was chosen for each species (Supplemental Figures, Figure {@fig:cv}). 
Ancestral populations were then assigned to cultivars using the program's projection feature.

Principal components analysis (PCA) was used as a model-free way of determining population structure. 
PCA was conducted using SNPRelate [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bts606] on the same LD-pruned data used by ADMIXTURE. 

### Analysis of Phenotypic Data
Historical data were obtained from the USDA Germplasm Resources Information Network (GRIN; [www.ars-grin.gov](https://www.ars-grin.gov)) for *C. maxima*, *C. pepo*, and *C. moschata*.
All duplicated entries were removed for qualitative traits, where categories are mutually exclusive, leaving only samples with unique entries for analysis.
Two traits: adult and nymph squash bug damage in *C. pepo* where transformed using the boxcox procedure.
Contemporary phenotypic data were collected from a subset of the *C. pepo* collection grown in the summer of 2018 in Ithaca, NY. 
Field-grown plants were phenotyped for vining bush habit at three different stages during the growing seasons to confirm bush, semi-bush or vining growth habit.
Plants that had a bush habit early in the season but started to vine at the end of the season were considered semi-bush.

### GWAS
Variant data were filtered to MAF $\geq 0.05$ and missingness $\leq 0.2$, and then imputed prior to association analysis. 
LinkImpute [@doi:10.1534/g3.115.021667], as implemented by the TASSEL [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btm308]  "LDKNNiImputatioHetV2Plugin" plugin was used for imputation with default settings. 
Any data still missing after this process were mean imputed. 
The GENESIS [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btz567] R package, which can model both binary and continuous traits. 
All models included the first two PCs of the marker matrix as fixed effects and modeled genotype effect ($u$) as a random effect distributed according to the kinship ($\mathbf{K}$) matrix ($u \sim N(0, \sigma_{u}^2\mathbf{K})$). 
Binary traits were modeled using a logistic regression with GENESIS. 
The kinship matrix was calculated using A.mat from rrBLUP [@doi:10.3835/plantgenome2011.08.0024] with mean imputation. 

### Syntenty of *Bu* putative region in *C. pepo* and *C. maxima*
All tools used in the analysis can be found on the Cucurbit Genomics website (http://cucurbitgenomics.org/). 
A candidate gene for dwarfism,*Bu*, in  *C. maxima* was elucidated by a previous study [@doi:10.1186/s12864-015-2312-8] and was named  Cma_004516. 
The Cucurbit Genomics Database gene ID of  Cma_004516 was identified by using the BLAST tool to align primer sequences used for RT-QPCR in the previous study against the *C. maxima* reference genome. 
The synteny analysis was done by using the Synteny Viewer tool and evaluating *C. maxima’s* chromosome 3 with C. pepo’s chromosome 10 and searching for an ortholog to the candidate gene. 
The physical position of the *C. pepo* ortholog was identified by searching the gene using the Search tool.
All tools used in the analysis can be found on the Cucurbit Genomics Database at [cucurbitgenomics.org](http://cucurbitgenomics.org).

### Identification of a Core Collection

Subsets representative of each panel's genetic diversity were identified through running GenoCore [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0181420] using the filtered SNP sets. 
The GenoCore settings were "-cv 99 -d 0.001".

### Data Availability 
All raw sequence data and variant files are availiable on the Cucurbit Genomics Database at [cucurbitgenomics.org](http://cucurbitgenomics.org). 
The phenotypic data used are available for download from the USDA Germplasm Resources Information Network (GRIN; [www.ars-grin.gov](https://www.ars-grin.gov)). 
Intermediate files and code used in the study are available on Github at [www.github.com/ch728/Cucurbita-USDA](https://www.github.com/ch728/Cucurbita-USDA).

